https://eng.yidaiyilu.gov.cn/p/12479.html
Guidance on Promoting Green Belt and Road      
Source: Belt and Road Portal 
Editor:liuyue
Updated: May 8, 2017




Guidance on Promoting Green Belt and Road
, 
	To build a more comprehensive,
in-depth, and diversified opening-up pattern, the CPC Central Committee and the
State Council sized up the situation and put forward the initiative to build
the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st-Century Maritime Silk Road
(hereinafter referred to as the Belt &amp; Road Initiative). It is
of great significance to quicken the pace to shape the mechanism and
environment that highlight innovation, value coordination, advocate green development,
deepen opening-up and promote sharing. In order to execute the Vision and Actions on Jointly Building Silk
Road Economic Belt and 21st-Century Maritime Silk Road, mainstream
ecological civilization in the Belt and Road Initiative, promote green development,
strengthen eco-environment protection, and jointly build a green silk road, the
following opinions below are hereby brought forth.
, 

, 
(i)
Promoting green Belt and Road is an internal need to share the ecological
civilization philosophy and achieve sustainable development. Guided
by ecological civilization and green development concepts, green Belt and Road
Initiative follows the principle of being resource efficient and environment
friendly, imbed the concept of green into the efforts in policy coordination,
facilities connectivity, unimpeded trade, financial integration and
people-to-people bonds (hereinafter referred to as Five Goals), and incorporates
eco-environment protection into all aspects and whole process of the Belt and
Road building. Promoting green Belt and Road and strengthening eco-environment
protection will help improve mutual understanding and support among
governments, enterprises and people of countries along the Belt and Road
route, share Chinas experience and practice in ecological civilization and
green development, enhance capability for eco-environment protection, prevent
eco-environment risk, facilitate joint achievement of 2030 sustainable
development goals by countries and regions along the route and provide sound
service, support and guarantee for the building of the Belt and Road.
, 
(ii)
Promoting green Belt and Road is an essential effort to participate in global
environmental governance and promote green development concept. Green
development has become a common goal and a key content of global governance. Promoting
green Belt and Road responds to the international trend of seeking green,
low-carbon and circular development. It is an effective means to reinforce the
stimuli for continuous and healthy economic development. To promote green Belt
and Road, efforts will be made to incorporate the principles of being resource efficient
and environment friendly into the whole process of international cooperation on
production capacity and equipment manufacturing, spur the enterprises to observe
relevant environmental protection laws, regulations and standards, and boost
green technology and industry development so as to enhance Chinas capability
to participate in global environmental governance.
, 
(iii)
Promoting green Belt and Road is a key move to serve and forge communities of
shared interests, common responsibility and common destiny. Challenged
by more severe global and regional eco-environmental issues, countries also
need a favorable ecological environment in seeking economic and social
development. It is a shared responsibility for countries in the world to prevent
and curb environmental pollution and ecological damage. Promoting green Belt
and Road is conducive to conducting pragmatic cooperation, promoting green
investment, green trade and green financial systems, achieving a win-win situation
for economic growth and environmental protection, and building communities of
shared interests, common responsibility and common destiny.
, 

, 
(i) Guiding philosophy
, 
	Following the decisions and deployment
of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, and guided by the Silk
Road Spirit featuring peace and cooperation, openness and inclusiveness,
learning for mutual benefit, we will spare no efforts to enhance the green concept
in realizing the five goals while embedded with the concept of seeking innovation,
coordination, green, openness and sharing and committed to the joint efforts in
process consultation and development, result sharing, equality and mutual
benefit. We will also develop supporting system for the exchanges and
cooperation on eco-environment protection, risk prevention and service, build
up the platform for communication and dialogue, information support and
industrial technological cooperation, and promote the formation of multi-dimensional
cooperation pattern featuring government guidance, enterprise as the main player
and civil society facilitation so as to render positive contributions to the green
Belt and Road Initiative.
, 
(ii)
Basic principles
, 
Green
concept as the priority and cooperation-based sharing. We will
prioritize the concept of ecological civilization and green development, focus
on the incorporation of eco-environment protection and socio-economic
development, actively integrate the relevant strategies and plans with
countries or regions along the route, strengthen policy dialogues on
eco-environment protection, enrich cooperation mechanisms and exchange
platforms, and promote the sharing of green development results.
, 
Leading
role of green development with environmental protection as the support. We will
facilitate the formation of multi-channel, multi-level and multi-dimensional
cooperation models for eco-environment protection, reinforce
government-enterprise coordination, and encourage industries and enterprises to
adopt more advanced and environmentally friendly standards so as to enhance their
green competitive edge to lead green development.
, 
Observing
laws and regulations for
risk prevention. We will urge the businesses to observe international
regulations on economy and trade and the laws, regulations, policies and
standards of the host countries on eco-environment protection, attach great
importance to the appeals of the local residents on environment protection, and
build up corporate credit system to circumvent eco risk and ensure safety.
, 
Holistic
integration and orderly advancement. We will
strengthen departmental coordination and integrate central and local government
efforts to shape a sound layout for the cooperation of production capacity and
equipment manufacturing in line with ecological carrying capacity; we will also
advance the green Belt and Road Initiative in an orderly way by prioritizing key
countries and fields via key cooperation mechanisms.
, 
(iii)
Main objectives
, 
	We will build up a mutually beneficial
cooperation network, new cooperation model and diversified cooperation platform
while taking into account the demands for ecological civilization green growth and
sustainable development of the countries along the route. We aim to build pragmatic
and efficient eco-environment protection cooperation &amp; exchange systems,
support and service platforms and industrial technological cooperation bases,
formulate and execute a series of eco-environment risk prevention policies and
measures and lay a solid foundation for green Belt and Road Initiative within
3 to 5 years; we also aim to  build a
relatively complete eco-environment protection service, support and guarantee
system, implement a cohort of key eco-environment protection projects and
achieve favorable results within 5 to 10 years.
, 

, 
(i)
Comprehensively serve the Five Goals, promote green development and ensure
eco-environment safety
, 
	1. We will highlight the ecological
civilization philosophy, strengthen communication on eco-environment protection
policy and facilitate people-to-people bonds. We will,
according to the overall requirements of the Belt and Road Initiative and by centering
around ecological civilization, sustainable development goals and relevant
environmental protection requirements, coordinate existing domestic and
international cooperation mechanisms, leverage on the role of eco-environment
protection as a window for international cooperation, strengthen integration of
eco-environment protection strategies and plans of countries or regions along
the route, and build cooperation &amp; exchange systems. We will fully utilize traditional
and new media outlets to disseminate information of the philosophy, laws and
regulations, policies and standards, technical practice and Chinas stories of ecological
civilization and green development. We will support environmental protection NGOs
to build partnerships with institutions of countries along the route so as to
co-conduct an array of events for environment protection so as to create an
enabling environment for joint efforts in advancing the green Belt and Road
Initiative and facilitate people-to-people bonds.
, 
	2.
We will reinforce basic preparation, optimize production capacity layout and
prevent eco risks. We will seek cooperation to understand the eco situation and
relevant requirements for environmental protection in project host countries
and regions, identify environment sensitive and vulnerable areas, conduct
integrated environment impact assessment and rationally arrange cooperation projects
on production capacity. We will reinforce cooperation &amp; exchange on environmental
emergency and early warning, and sharpen environment risk prevention capability
so as to guarantee environment safety for the Belt and Road Initiative.
, 
	3.
We will boost green infrastructure and prioritize environment quality. We will
formulate environmental protection standards and codes for infrastructure
construction, increase environment protection service and support for major
infrastructure construction projects along the route, popularize energy
conservation and environmental protection standards and practice in such
sectors as green transport, green building and clean energy, advance
environmental protection in areas like water, atmosphere, soil and bio-diversity,
promote environmental infrastructure construction and improve green and
low-carbon construction and operation.
, 
	4.
We will advance green trade and promote sustainable production and consumption.
We will study and formulate policy measures and relevant standards and codes,
and boost green trade. We will also include environmental protection
requirements into FTAs, serve the negotiation for and the implementation of
relevant environment and trade agreements and heighten the verification of compliance
of environmental measures in trade activities; We will liberalize environmental
protection industries and expand import &amp; export of green products and
services; We will accelerate the research and formulation of green product
evaluation standards, develop green product standard system, reinforce
international exchange &amp; cooperation, popularize Chinas green product
standards and reduce green trade barriers. We will also intensify green supply
chain management, promote green production, purchase and consumption, strengthen
international cooperation and demonstration on green supply chain, mobilize the
upper and lower stream of the supply chain to adopt energy efficient and
environmental friendly measures, and lower the impact on environment with
market means.
, 
	5.
We will fortify environment management of overseas investment and develop green
financial system. We will quicken the pace to formulate and execute policies
and measures to prevent eco risks of investment and financing projects, tighten
environment management for overseas investment, drive enterprises to
voluntarily bear environmental and social responsibilities, and strictly
protect bio-diversity and ecological environment. We will push Chinas
financial institutions, multilateral development agencies initiated and participated
by China and relevant enterprises to adopt the principle of voluntary environment
risk management so as to support green Belt and Road Initiative. We will also
actively facilitate the implementation of green industrial development and
eco-environment protection projects.
, 
(ii)
Develop environmental protection cooperation platform to provide all-round
support and service
, 
	1.
We will develop environmental protection cooperation mechanisms &amp; platforms
and perfect the international environmental governance system. We will, by centering
around green Belt and Road Initiative, coordinate and fully utilize the
existing bilateral and multilateral international cooperation mechanisms for
environmental protection, build environmental protection cooperation networks,
innovate environmental protection international cooperation models and build up
diversified cooperation platforms participated by governments, think tanks,
enterprises, social organizations and the public. We will also intensify the
roles of such cooperation mechanisms as China-ASEAN cooperation, SCO
cooperation, Lancang-Mekong cooperation, CICA, Euro-Asia Economic Forum, FOCAC,
and China-Arab States cooperation, advance the cooperation platform on environmental
protection for the six major economic corridors, expand the cooperation with
relevant international organizations and institutions, and facilitate the
reform of the international environmental governance system.
, 
	2.
We will strengthen the cooperation on eco-environment protection standards and
technological innovation for a lead in green development. We will build green
technology banks and intensify transfer and transformation of green, advanced
and applicable technologies in developing countries along the Belt and Road
route. We will encourage relevant industry associations to formulate and issue
industrial eco-environment protection standards, codes and guides that are in
line with international standards, promote joint R &amp; D, popularize and apply
advanced eco-environment protection technologies, reinforce technical personnel
exchanges, and drive scientific research institutions and think tanks to
co-build scientific research and technical R &amp; D platforms so as to provide
intellectual support for green Belt and Road Initiative.
, 
	3.
We will promote sharing and disclosure of environmental protection information
and provide comprehensive information support and guarantee. We will strengthen
the development of big data on environmental protection, utilize information
technologies such as Internet plus, big data and satellite remote sensing,
make use of the role of national spatial and information infrastructure,
strengthen environment information sharing and co-build green Belt and Road
eco-environment protection big data service platforms. We will also promote
exchanges and sharing of practical experience in environmental protection laws,
regulations, policies, and standards, strengthen inter-departmental
coordination and cooperation and the sharing and disclosure of projects eco
protection information, provide better consultation service for overseas
projects concerning environment risk assessment and prevention, and seek more cooperate
on environment protection information products, technologies and services so as
to provide more comprehensive information for the green Belt and Road Initiative.
, 
(iii)
Formulate full-fledged policy measures and heighten government-enterprise
coordination to ensure implementation results
, 
	1.
We will expand outbound assistance and support efforts and facilitate the
implementation of green projects. By focusing on such key areas as environment
protection, pollution prevention and control, environmental protection
technologies and industries, and personnel training and exchanges, we will
prioritize infrastructure and capability building projects for energy
conservation, emission reduction and eco-environment protection, establish center
for environment protection cooperation abroad, play the role of South-South
Cooperation Assistance Fund, and support NGOs to carry out various environment
protection projects to serve the Belt and Road Initiative.
, 
	2.
We will enhance green guidance for corporate behavior and encourage businesses to
adopt voluntary measures. We will encourage environment friendly enterprises to
expand their markets in countries along the route, guide the
environment-friendly industries with competitive edge to go global in
clusters, and explore innovative cooperation modes for joint construction of eco-environment
protection parks with countries along the route while taking Chinas
construction standards for national eco-industrial demonstration parks as the
reference. We will implement the Guideline
of Environment Protection for Overseas Investment and Cooperation and drive
enterprises to voluntarily obey local environmental protection laws,
regulations, standards and codes, honor environmental and social
responsibilities and release annual environmental reports. We will encourage the
enterprises to prioritize low-carbon, energy-saving, environment-friendly and
green materials and technical processes, reinforce bio-diversity protection, prioritize
protective measures at or near the site and take good care of ecological rehabilitation.
We will also guide the businesses to tighten their R &amp; D efforts on key
technologies to address climate change and expand application.
, 
	3.
We will consolidate government-enterprise coordination with enterprises as the
main players. We will also study and formulate relevant documents to regulate
and guide related enterprises to honor environmental and social
responsibilities while advancing the Belt and Road Initiative and refine the verification
mechanism for overseas investment by the enterprises. Relevant industry associations
and chambers of commerce should establish code of conduct for overseas
investment by enterprises and guide the enterprises to regulate their environmental
behavior via self-discipline.
, 
(iv)
Leverage on local advantages, strengthen capacity building and facilitate project
implementation
, 
	1.
We will leverage on the geographic advantages of different regions and define
positioning and cooperation direction. We will fully utilize the geographic
advantages of each region in advancing the Belt and Road Initiative with
clear positioning. We will also, in places with favorable conditions, accelerate
the construction of Center for Belt and Road Environmental Technology Innovation
and Transfer and Base for the Cooperation and  Demonstration of Environmental Friendly Technology
and Industry, and base for the cooperation and  demonstration of environmental friendly technology
and industry targeted at ASEAN, Central Asia, South Asia, Central and Eastern
Europe, Arab States, Africa and other countries. We will drive and support
environmental protection industrial parks, circular economy industrial parks,
major industrial sectors and environmental protection enterprises to be more
international and advance the implementation of projects supporting
environmental protection technology and industrial cooperation in Yangtze River
Economic Zone, Bohai Rim, Pearl River Delta and Central Henan urban clusters so
as to support green Belt and Road Initiative.
, 
	2.
We will step up coordination and supporting efforts and strengthen capacity building
on environment protection. We will promote the incorporation of green Belt and
Road Initiative into local social and economic development plans, plan
industrial spatial layout in a sound way, formulate strict environmental
protection systems and advance local industrial transformation and upgrading
and green economic development. We will focus on the environment oversight and
governance capacity building in Heilongjiang, Inner Mongolia, Jilin, Xinjiang,
Yunnan, Guangxi and other border regions and driving Jiangsu, Guangdong,
Shaanxi, Fujian and other provinces and regions along the Belt and Road route
to enhance green development. We will also encourage regions to actively
participate in multilateral and bilateral environmental protection cooperation,
encourage the establishment of provincial and city level international
partnerships, actively innovate cooperation modes, and facilitate the formation
of a favorable situation featuring integration of central and local government efforts,
government-enterprise coordination and support by think tanks.
, 

, 
IV. Organizational guarantee
, 
	(i) Strengthen
organization and coordination. We will establish and improve comprehensive mechanisms
for coordination and implementation, strengthen multi-level and multi-channel
communication, exchanges and positive interaction among government departments,
between central government and local governments, and among government, enterprises
and the general public, with division of labor featuring well-defined
accountability, coordinated advancement and detailed work plans so as to ensure
the implementation of relevant plans and measures by different departments,
regions and project executing agencies and enterprise.
, 
	(ii) Consolidate fund
guarantee. We will encourage qualified Belt and Road green projects to apply
for support from the existing capital (funding) channels such as national green
development fund and PPP financing support fund according to procedures. We
will also play the guiding role of the existing financial institutions such as
China Development Bank and the Export-Import Bank of China in forming
multi-channel investment system and long-term mechanism featuring integrated
utilization of funds from the central and local governments and the society. We
will make use of unique advantages of policy-based financial institutions in
guiding and channeling the funds of various parties to jointly support the
development of green Belt and Road Initiative. We will continue to provide positive
support for Belt and Road green projects through the existing international
multilateral and bilateral cooperative institutions and funds, such as Silk
Road Fund, South-South Cooperation Assistance Fund, China-ASEAN Investment
Cooperation Fund, China-Central and Eastern Europe Investment Cooperation Fund,
China-ASEAN Maritime Cooperation Fund, Special Fund for Asian Regional
Cooperation and LMC Special Fund.
, 
	(iii) Reinforce
talent team building. We will build a green Belt and Road intellectual
support system and build new-type think tanks for Green Silk Road; innovate
and perfect talent cultivation mechanism and focus on training
inter-disciplinary talents who have international perspectives, grasp
international rules and well understand environmental protection business, with
greater supporting efforts to the talents for the green Belt and Road Initiative.
, 

, 
Chinese version
, 

, Departments and organizations  under the State Council, Local Governments, Subsites of Belt and Road Portal, Partners, Media, International Organizations