https://eng.yidaiyilu.gov.cn/p/10477.html
'The Belt and Road' Vision and Actions for Cooperation in Metrology      
Source: General Administration of Quality Supervision Inspection and Quarantine of PRC 
Editor:lishen
Updated: March 31, 2017




The
Belt and Road Vision and Actions for Cooperation in Metrology
, 
General Administration of
Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of
, 
the Peoples Republic of China
, 
	 
, 
	More than two millennia ago,
thanks to the concerted efforts of our ancestors, a silk road connecting Asia
and Europe through land and sea was successfully built, serving as a bridge
between the East and West for interactions and as a major route for economic,
political, cultural and ideological activities between the two continents.
, 
	For
centuries, the ancient Silk Road, a link of historical importance, has
witnessed countless unforgettable moments of people going through thick and
thin in countries along the route. Symbolizing a spirit of "peaceful
cooperation, openness, inclusiveness, mutual learning, mutual benefit and
all-win", the road has become a common spiritual wealth of the peoples of
countries along the Belt and Road. Passed from generation to generation, the
timeless spirit of the Silk Road has been instrumental in promoting the
integration of different peoples and cultures and in facilitating exchanges
between different countries and regions and thus has made unique and substantive contributions to the prosperity and development of Asia and Europe.
, 
	In
1875, representatives of 17 countries signed the intergovernmental agreement,
the Metre Convention in Paris, France and founded organizations under this
treaty, establishing a permanent international framework for realizing the
global unification of measurement units. With the constant development of
society, metrology, as an important means of social governance, lays the
groundwork for economic development, serves as a foundation for fair trade,
supports technological progress, has play a significant role in global trade
and sustainable economic as well as social development.
, 
	With
great attention being given by the Chinese government and tremendous support
from all sectors of society, Chinese metrological system is continuously being
improved and developed. Presently, metrology has become as an integral part of
National Quality Infrastructure, serving as a link connecting China and other
countries in the world, making it possible to build trust and achieve common
progress. To promote the innovation and development of an international
metrological system on the basis of respecting countries differences in
history and culture, national interests and natural resource endowment, accords
with not only the fundamental needs of social development but also our common
vision for the future.
, 
	In
March 2015, the Chinese Government authorized the promulgation of Vision and
Actions on Jointly Building Silk Road Economic Belt and 21st-Century Maritime
Silk Road, which puts forward the cooperation initiative of building The Belt
and Road by China and countries along the Belt and Road and explicitly makes
metrology as a key area of cooperation. This not only demonstrates the vital
and fundamental status of metrology, but also embodies our common need for
mutual benefit, providing guidelines for deepening the cooperation in metrology
between China and countries along the Belt and Road.
, 
	In
order to promote pragmatic cooperation in metrology with countries along the
Belt and Road in a larger scope, with higher standards and at deeper levels,
the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and  Quarantine of the Peoples Republic of China
has initiated and published The Belt and Road Vision and Actions for
Cooperation in Metrology.
, 
I. General ideas
, 
	Championing
the ideas of equality, extensive consultation, joint contribution, sharing
benefits and all-win while abiding by international norms, based on the reality
of each country and through equal-footed consultation, we should actively push
forward with all-around pragmatic cooperation with countries along the Belt and
Road and give consideration to the interests and aspirations of all parties.
With combined efforts, we should promote the innovation and development of an
international metrological system, encourage international mutual recognition
for metrology, facilitate trade liberalization and contribute to the
sustainable development of regional economies and societies.
, 
II. Basic principles
, 
Opening-up and cooperation. We should call for the broad
participation of the competent metrological departments of each government,
metrological institutions, stakeholders in metrology, the general public as
well as international and regional organizations in order to steer the international
cooperation in metrology in the direction of increased openness, inclusiveness
and mutual benefits
, 
Mutual
learning. We should encourage countries to learn from each other in terms of their
experience in advanced metrological management, metrological science and
technology and achievements in metrological development so as to complement
each other, enhance mutual trust and realize common progress.
, 
Mutual benefit
and all-win. While respecting the variances in the metrological
regulations of each country and giving comprehensive consideration to the
collaboration needs and national interests of countries along the Belt and
Road, on the basis of mutual communication and mutual agreement, we should seek
cooperation methods to maximize the benefits of all the parties and endeavor to
have the achievements of the cooperation benefit all the peoples.
, 
III. Cooperation priorities
, 
	(I) Enhancing the communication and exchanges for
metrological policies.
, 
	We
should promote intergovernmental cooperation between competent departments in
the field of metrology, build a multi-level intergovernmental metrological
policy exchange and communication mechanism, strengthen consultation and
coordination regarding relevant international affairs, enhance mutual
understanding and trust, and reach new cooperation consensus. We should work
toward building an information exchange and communication mechanism for the
metrological field, enhancing the transparency of metrological regulations and
realizing resource sharing among countries along the Belt and Road.
, 
	China
will continue to improve the transparency of its metrological policies and
avail itself of bilateral and multilateral mechanisms in order for the
international community to be informed of Chinas policies and updates regarding
metrology in a timely, accurate and sufficient fashion. China is ready to work
together with countries along the Belt and Road to build a platform for the
sharing and quick retrieval of metrological information and to notify each
other of information on certificates, organizations, personnel and supervision.
, 
	(II) Promoting international mutual recognition for
metrology.
, 
	We
should accelerate the process of bilateral and multilateral mutual recognitions
for metrology, facilitate international mutual recognition of type evaluation
results of metrological instruments and contribute to international metrological equivalence. We should jointly carry out the
study on metrological systems of different countries, metrological comparison
and international peer reviews so as to boost our mutual confidence in the
capabilities of our metrological laboratories, facilitate mutual metrology
recognition and remove trade barriers.
, 
	China
will play an active role in establishing a mechanism for the arrangements of
international mutual recognition for metrology, utilizing the positive effects
of bilateral mechanisms, seeking converging interests between the parties based
on the needs of each country, and constantly expanding the scope of mutually
recognizing countries and mutually recognized products, with the final goal of
realizing one test, one certificate, accepted
everywhere
, 
	(III) Enhancing technological exchanges about
metrology between countries.
, 
	We
should enhance information exchange between countries institutions for
metrological technology, especially national metrology institutes, in terms of
strategic planning, scientific research and business development. We should
establish effective cooperation mechanisms and conduct substantive cooperation
efforts such as joint research and bilateral and multilateral comparisons.
Personal exchange will be increased with reciprocal dispatch of visiting
scholars. Advanced scientific and technological achievements will be shared. We
should utilize state-of-the-art technologies to boost our national measurement
capabilities and also work together to improve our sci-tech innovation
capabilities.
, 
	China
will create positive conditions to promote sci-tech personnel exchanges, offer
technical training and verification and calibration services to the
institutions for metrological technology of developing countries, help them
with the training of technicians, support their capacity building and carry out
technology transfer.
, 
	(IV) Increasing the capacity of metrological
services.
, 
	All
countries, based on their own development needs, should jointly deepen the
integration of metrology and industries, improve metrological testing and
enhance metrologys capability to serve economic and trade development. With
joint efforts, we should strengthen our in-depth cooperation in emerging
industries such as new-generation biology, new energy, and new materials,
tackle key scientific and technological problems and address critical metrological
issues. We should adapt ourselves to trends in industrial transformation, step
up our efforts in collaborative research and development regarding national
metrological standards, encourage all national metrological institutions to
provide wide-ranging metrological testing services and mutual aid, and devote
joint contributions to and facilitate the sharing of all national metrology technology
infrastructures.
, 
	China
is ready to offer more metrological exchanges, consultation and training to
countries along the Belt and Road and assist them in building enhanced
metrological capacities. China calls on all the countries to deepen their
cooperation in metrological testing technologies and work together to increase
their capabilities to develop the metrological service industry and economy.
, 
IV. Cooperation mechanisms
, 
	Establishing
and perfecting bilateral cooperation mechanisms. We should make full use of the
existing bilateral mechanisms, carry out multi-level and multi-channel
communication and consultation, so as to boost comprehensive development of
bilateral cooperation in metrology. China is ready to work with other countries
to strengthen cooperation in metrology under the existing bilateral mechanisms,
implement the outcomes of our previous cooperation, facilitate the signing of
cooperation MoUs or plans, and coordinate and promote the implementation of
cooperation projects.
, 
	Improving
multilateral cooperation mechanisms. We should give full play to multilateral
cooperation mechanisms, promote cooperation and dialogue on metrology among
governments, call on countries to actively participate in activities by
regional metrological organizations and in multilateral arrangements for
international mutual recognition, fully consider the metrological demands of
all parties and build an international cooperation system for metrology. China
is ready to play a more active role in international and regional organizations
and provide metrological aid to developing countries, with the aim of achieving
common progress in the metrological undertakings of all countries.
, 
	Strengthening
cooperation at industrial and local levels. The initiatives of industries,
academies and relevant metrological parties should be brought into full play to
participate in international cooperation. Under various arrangements of
bilateral and multilateral cooperation, active efforts should be made to
attract the participation of all relevant institutions. China will actively
encourage local authorities to participate in bilateral and multilateral
cooperation, conduct equal-footed cooperation and exchange within an overall
cooperation framework, and utilize their locational and geographical advantage
to promote regional cooperation and development.
, 
	The
General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of the
Peoples Republic of China is ready to work with countries along the Belt and
Road to seize the opportunity provided by the Initiative, inherit and carry
forward the Silk Road spirit, continue to improve the content and methods of
our metrological cooperation and promote mutual trust and mutual recognition in
the field of metrology, with the aim of driving the development of the said
countries and bringing the benefits of the Initiative to their peoples.
, Departments and organizations  under the State Council, Local Governments, Subsites of Belt and Road Portal, Partners, Media, International Organizations